So now that we've gotten past
opening the terminal
and kind of staring at this black screen,
we want to be able to do something.
Now the very very basic
kind of first steps
of using the terminal
is being able to navigate your directory structure.
Now I have on my hard drive,
my computer, my blog.
Okay so in this document directory
I have my blog here
and a whole bunch of files.
Inside of public is a list of
all the blog posts in markdown.
Now it's great.
But how do I get there
using the terminal?
Okay so here's a few commands
that we're going to use
pretty much all the time
when we're using the terminals.
The first one is ls,
and ls will list everything that's in the directory.
So ls will just kind of print
everything on the screen
but it's not very clear
kind of what's what at this point.
So another version of this is to use
ls and then dash
and then everything afterwards is a switch.
So this says list.
L means list in one long list
rather than kind of horizontally.
T means to order by time,
and r means to show me in reverse order
which means that the newest will be at the bottom
so basically the closest to my prompt here.
So it's extremely common for me to type
ls dash ltr
to look at the directory listing.
And this gives me a whole bunch of information.
So let's have a brief look at this.
So over here in the corner
we have all of these
kind of characters.
We've got these numbers, my name, this staff thing,
another set of numbers,
something looks like a date time stamp
and then the name.
Okay so the important parts here are
obviously the time stamp.
So the newest one is at the bottom
because we've reversed by time.
We also have the owner here
who has access to read and write the file.
And in this case it's me.
My user is called rem.
When I logged into my machine, I'm rem.
So that means that it belongs to me.
And over here on the far left is
kind of information about this particular entry.
Now you don't have to worry too much
about what's actually here.
Really the only that it's telling me is that,
or the only interesting piece of information is that
it's a directory, this d
which we already know if we look
at the home directory in Finder, right?
And then also what permissions I have.
So read is r
write is I can actually make a change to the document
and execute means I can run things inside there.
And we'll look at executing later on.
And then everything else is for other people.
So if I share this machine with someone else
then in this case
they have no permissions to my documents
but in this public folder up at the top
you can see they have
read permissions afterwards.
So I won't dwell on this too much
but really there's just some extra meta information.
This number you don't need to worry about.
It means links I think.
Something you don't have to worry about again.
I think this is the file size
but directories don't particularly have file sizes.
So my blog is over in this Documents directory.
Where is it?
Documents and then remysharp.
How do I get there from the terminal?
Well I type change directory, cd
and then the directory I want to move into.
So I can start typing Documents
and I can type out the whole thing
or I can start typing
and then hit tab
and it will try and fill out
the rest of the match
everything that's listed in this directory.
So if I just type D
and hit tab
you can see I have
two directories beginning with D, Downloads and Documents.
And it doesn't auto fill out straight away.
I have to hit it twice
and it will say I've got a few choices.
Desktop, Documents, or Downloads.
So if I type Do
gives me a bit more.
Down, there we go.
Okay so I'm now in the Downloads directory.
I've changed Directory into Downloads
and you can see now here
you can see the Downloads appears.
This is the directory I'm currently in.
We look back earlier
you can see this tilde.
That character it means the home directory.
So you'll see that whenever you're in the home directory
we can actually use this if we want to.
So I can do cd and then tilde
and it will take me back to the home directory.
But I'm going to stay in the Downloads directory
for the time being.
Once we're here
you'll notice I'm right at the bottom
of my terminal.
I prefer to look up.
So I can clear the screen.
You can type clear
or you can type
wrong directory
you can type control+l
and that will also clear the screen.
So where were we going?
We were going to Documents not Downloads.
So Documents and I type in ls dash ltr
and then remysharp and a cd r tab.
We're back in ls.
And I want to go into the public and then blog directory.
So from here I can actually join up the directories.
I can do public and then blog
and I'm now going to move directly into this directory.
I do an ls.
You can see all of my blog posts.
Cool so I've moved into a directory.
I can see the current directory I'm in right now.
I can see the full path of the directory I'm in
by typing pwd
so present working directory.
So it's not something you need to know very often
but sometimes you want to
kind of see where you are.
So pwd will give me this.
Okay so I'm deep in this directory.
What happens if I want to go back up into remysharp?
Well I could type cd tilde
and then kind of go forward from there.
But I can also kind of navigate up and down
the tree of directories.
Now to do that
I use two periods
so cd dot dot.
So dot dot means the parent directory.
So this will move me from the blog up into public.
So now you can see I'm in public.
So I type in pwd.
I'm in public
and I can join those together.
So I go back into blog
and I can do cd double slash dot dot slash
and that will take me from blog into public
and then to the public's parent directory
which is remysharp.com.
Enter, there we go.
Okay so I'm moving around directories.
And we can join these up together.
So I can do,
where were we?
Public, blog, so I can type cd double slash.
I can go into my draughts
and that will just move up a directory
and then down into the draughts directory.